README.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->

Python library for controlling a Pioneer AVI via its built-in API.

Inspired by the [original Pioneer Home Assistant integration](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/pioneer/).
Tested on a VSX-930 (Main Zone and HDZone outputs).

## Features

- Implemented in asyncio.
- Maintains single continuous telnet session to AVR, with automatic reconnect.
- Eliminates status polling where AVR sends keepalive responses (on port 8102).
- Auto-detects Zones 1, 2, 3 and HDZONE.
- Automatically polls AVR for source names - no longer need to manually code them in your config any more if your AVR supports their retrieval. Can also set source names manually.
- Ignore specific zones, for AVRs that report phantom zones.
- Queries device parameters: MAC address, software version, model.
- Ability to set internal parameters to change the API functionality, eg. maximum volume, volume step change delta.
- Defaults for internal parameters can be changed based on custom profiles based on AVR model.
- Includes workaround for AVRs with an initial volume set on the Main Zone (eg. VSX-930).
- Supports AVRs that do not support setting the volume level by emulating using up/down commands (eg. VSX-S510).
- Command line client for sending commands and testing

## Command line interface (CLI) (>= 0.1.3)

A very simple command line interface `aiopioneer` is available to connect to the AVR, send commands and receive responses. It can be used to test the capabilities of the library against your specific AVR.

The CLI accepts all API commands, as well as the following:
| Command | Argument | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| `exit` or `quit` | | Exit the CLI.
| `zone` | _zone_ | Change current zone to _zone_.
| `log_level` | _log_level_ | Change debug level to _log_level_. Valid log levels are: `debug`, `info`, `warning`, `error`, `critical`.
| `update` | | Request update of AVR. An update is scheduled in the updater task if a scan interval is set, if it is not set then the update is performed synchronously.
| `update_full` | | Request a full update of AVR irrespective of when the previous update was performed. An update is scheduled in the updater task if a scan interval is set, if it is not set then the update is performed synchronously.
| `query_device_info` | | Query the AVR for device information.
| `query_zones` | | Query the AVR for available zones. Ignore zones specified in parameter `ignored_zones` (list).
| `build_source_dict` | | Query the sources from the AVR.
| `set_source_dict` | _sources_ (JSON) | Manually set the sources to _sources_.
| `get_source_list` | | Return the current set of available source names that can be used with the `select_source` command.
| `get_params` | | Return the currently active set of parameters.
| `get_user_params` | | Return the currently active set of user parameters.
| `set_user_params` | _params_ (JSON) | Set the user parameters to _params_.
| `debug_listener` | _state_ (bool) | Enable/disable the `debug_listener` parameter.
| `debug_responder` | _state_ (bool) | Enable/disable the `debug_responder` parameter.
| `debug_updater` | _state_ (bool) | Enable/disable the `debug_updater` parameter.
| `debug_command` | _state_ (bool) | Enable/disable the `debug_command` parameter.
| `set_scan_interval` | _scan_interval_ (float) | Set the scan interval to _scan_interval_.
| `get_scan_interval` | | Return the current scan interval.
| `set_volume_level` | _volume_level_ (int) | Set the volume level for the current zone.
| `select_source` | _source_name_ | Set the input source for the current zone.
| `send_raw_command` | _raw_command_ | Send the raw command _raw_command_ to the AVR.

**NOTE:** The CLI interface may change in the future, and should not be used in scripts. Use the Python API instead.

## Known issues and future plans

- Document PioneerAVR API

## Breaking changes

- **0.1**\
  `_PioneerAVR.__init__()` no longer accepts `command_delay`, `volume_workaround` and `volume_steps` arguments. Configure these parameters using the equivalent `PARAM_*` keys in the `params` dict, passed in via the constructure or set via `set_user_params()`.

## References

- Home Assistant Pioneer integration: [https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/pioneer/](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/pioneer/)
- Pioneer commands references: [https://github.com/rwifall/pioneer-receiver-notes](https://github.com/rwifall/pioneer-receiver-notes)
- Another asyncio Pioneer HA component: [https://github.com/realthk/asyncpioneer](https://github.com/realthk/asyncpioneer)

Commit message:

Moved params documentation from HA integration

README.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->

Python library for controlling a Pioneer AVI via its built-in API.

Inspired by the [original Pioneer Home Assistant integration](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/pioneer/).
Tested on a VSX-930 (Main Zone and HDZone outputs).

## Features

- Implemented in asyncio.
- Maintains single continuous telnet session to AVR, with automatic reconnect.
- Eliminates status polling where AVR sends keepalive responses (on port 8102).
- Auto-detects Zones 1, 2, 3 and HDZONE.
- Automatically polls AVR for source names - no longer need to manually code them in your config any more if your AVR supports their retrieval. Can also set source names manually.
- Ignore specific zones, for AVRs that report phantom zones.
- Queries device parameters: MAC address, software version, model.
- Ability to set internal parameters to change the API functionality, eg. maximum volume, volume step change delta.
- Defaults for internal parameters can be changed based on custom profiles based on AVR model.
- Includes workaround for AVRs with an initial volume set on the Main Zone (eg. VSX-930).
- Supports AVRs that do not support setting the volume level by emulating using up/down commands (eg. VSX-S510).
- Command line client for sending commands and testing

## Params

A `params` object may be passed to the library that modifies its functionality.

The default parameters listed below are for AVR models that do not match any custom profile. Custom profiles apply additional default parameters based on the model identifier retrieved from the AVR, and are defined in [`aiopioneer/param.py`](https://github.com/crowbarz/aiopioneer/blob/main/aiopioneer/param.py). If you need to modify parameters for the library to work for your AVR model, then please create a PR to add a custom profile for your AVR model, or log an issue containing your model number and the parameters that were modified requesting a custom profile to be created.

| Name | Type | Default | Description
| ---- | ---- | ------- | -----------
| `ignored_zones` | list | `[]` | List of zones to ignore even if they are auto-discovered. Specify Zone IDs as strings: "1", "2", "3" and "Z".
| `command_delay` | float | `0.1` | Insert a delay between sequential commands that are sent to the AVR. This appears to make the AVR behave more reliably during status polls. Increase this value if debug logging shows that your AVR times out between commands.
| `max_source_id` | int | `60` | Maximum source ID that the source discovery queries. Reduce this if your AVR returns errors.
| `max_volume` | int | `185` | Maximum volume for the Main Zone.
| `max_volume_zonex` | int | `185` | Maximum volume for zones other than the Main Zone.
| `power_on_volume_bounce` | bool | `false` | On some AVRs (eg. VSX-930) where a power-on is set, the initial volume is not reported by the AVR correctly until a volume change is made. This option enables a workaround that sends a volume up and down command to the AVR on power-on to correct the reported volume without affecting the power-on volume.
| `volume_step_only` | bool | `false` | On some AVRs (eg. VSX-S510), setting the volume level is not supported natively by the API. This option emulates setting the volume level using volume up and down commands.
| `volume_step_delta` | int | `1` | _Deprecated in 0.5._ The number of units that each volume up/down commands changes the volume by. Used when `volume_step_only` is `true`.
| `ignore_volume_check` | bool | `false` | Don't check volume when determining whether a zone exists on the AVR. Useful for AVRs with an HDZone that passes through audio.
| `debug_listener` | bool | `false` | Enables additional debug logging for the listener task. See [Enabling debugging](#enabling-debugging) for details.
| `debug_responder` | bool | `false` | Enables additional debug logging for the responder task. See [Enabling debugging](#enabling-debugging) for details.
| `debug_updater` | bool | `false` | Enables additional debug logging for the updater task. See [Enabling debugging](#enabling-debugging) for details.
| `debug_command` | bool | `false` | Enables additional debug logging for commands sent and responses received. See [Enabling debugging](#enabling-debugging) for details.

## Command line interface (CLI) (>= 0.1.3)

A very simple command line interface `aiopioneer` is available to connect to the AVR, send commands and receive responses. It can be used to test the capabilities of the library against your specific AVR.

The CLI accepts all API commands, as well as the following:
| Command | Argument | Description
| --- | --- | ---
| `exit` or `quit` | | Exit the CLI.
| `zone` | _zone_ | Change current zone to _zone_.
| `log_level` | _log_level_ | Change debug level to _log_level_. Valid log levels are: `debug`, `info`, `warning`, `error`, `critical`.
| `update` | | Request update of AVR. An update is scheduled in the updater task if a scan interval is set, if it is not set then the update is performed synchronously.
| `update_full` | | Request a full update of AVR irrespective of when the previous update was performed. An update is scheduled in the updater task if a scan interval is set, if it is not set then the update is performed synchronously.
| `query_device_info` | | Query the AVR for device information.
| `query_zones` | | Query the AVR for available zones. Ignore zones specified in parameter `ignored_zones` (list).
| `build_source_dict` | | Query the sources from the AVR.
| `set_source_dict` | _sources_ (JSON) | Manually set the sources to _sources_.
| `get_source_list` | | Return the current set of available source names that can be used with the `select_source` command.
| `get_params` | | Return the currently active set of parameters.
| `get_user_params` | | Return the currently active set of user parameters.
| `set_user_params` | _params_ (JSON) | Set the user parameters to _params_.
| `debug_listener` | _state_ (bool) | Enable/disable the `debug_listener` parameter.
| `debug_responder` | _state_ (bool) | Enable/disable the `debug_responder` parameter.
| `debug_updater` | _state_ (bool) | Enable/disable the `debug_updater` parameter.
| `debug_command` | _state_ (bool) | Enable/disable the `debug_command` parameter.
| `set_scan_interval` | _scan_interval_ (float) | Set the scan interval to _scan_interval_.
| `get_scan_interval` | | Return the current scan interval.
| `set_volume_level` | _volume_level_ (int) | Set the volume level for the current zone.
| `select_source` | _source_name_ | Set the input source for the current zone.
| `send_raw_command` | _raw_command_ | Send the raw command _raw_command_ to the AVR.

**NOTE:** The CLI interface may change in the future, and should not be used in scripts. Use the Python API instead.

## Known issues and future plans

- Document PioneerAVR API
- Remove param `volume_step_delta` in next major version

## Breaking changes

- **0.1**\
  `_PioneerAVR.__init__()` no longer accepts `command_delay`, `volume_workaround` and `volume_steps` arguments. Configure these parameters using the equivalent `PARAM_*` keys in the `params` dict, passed in via the constructure or set via `set_user_params()`.

## References

- Home Assistant Pioneer integration: [https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/pioneer/](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/pioneer/)
- Pioneer commands references: [https://github.com/rwifall/pioneer-receiver-notes](https://github.com/rwifall/pioneer-receiver-notes)
- Another asyncio Pioneer HA component: [https://github.com/realthk/asyncpioneer](https://github.com/realthk/asyncpioneer)
